hey everyone back again so soon Lhasa
Montgomery here CHP 191 part 8 of the
history of Chinese philosophy
last time we convened we were in the
northern song dynasty looking at the
five founders of neo-confucianism so far
were three fifths of the way there
last week was jötunn ye shall young and
Jiang chai in this part 8 of the history
of Chinese philosophy we're going to
finish off the Cinco funda daughters
right now by looking at a couple of
brothers Cheung Chau who lived 10 32 to
1085 and his younger brother by one year
Cheung Yee 10:33 to 1107 I think I
mentioned this all these five
philosophers who were so instrumental in
the growth of neo-confucianism they
lived at the same time and knew each
other in fact the Chung brothers father
you stay have philosophical debates with
Johto and Yi Xiao Yu and John's I back
in the day
Cheung Chau and Cheung Yee both studied
under Joe Tunney by now I hope every one
of you my good-looking erudite listeners
have already downloaded the free
infographic available at the website or
at the Magnificent China channel dot-org
you can get it there now these northern
song philosophers they live during the
best of times the reigns of emperors Ren
song in song and shun song these were
the glory days of su sure you know that
was su dongpo he too was a contemporary
of the Chung brothers we featured him in
CHP episode 175 if you recall if you
were someone who was part of the
educated elites of northern song society
this period of these five philosophers
11th century kaifeng must have been the
scene as some of the best repartee the
tea houses of China had seen since who
knows when when you talk about the two
Chung's we think of li li is one of
those chinese characters with a lot of
meanings plea colas 15 of them but the
one definition of li that
you're most concerned with his inner
essence or principal Chung Hall and
Chung he didn't create the idea of Lee
it originally came from Buddhism but
they took it and turned it into one of
the key points of neo-confucianism and
for this main reason these two brothers
more than the other three thinkers
mentioned last episode can be regarded
as the well true founders of
neo-confucianism the whole idea of Lee
was paramount to neo-confucianism the
Chung's were the first to call Lee the
ultimate reality of the universe and
made it central to their philosophical
system Lee was the essential ingredient
that separated sung Confucianism from
the long-standing traditional
Confucianism going back to the Han
Chinese concept of Lee focused on the
difference between form and matter those
who studied Aristotle know he too wrote
about what was matter and what was
formed
chun-hee postulated that all things in
the world must be the embodiments of
some principle some Lee inside some
material if a certain thing exists it
must contain a certainly or inner
essence or principle we'll get to the
material part in a second the great
inspiration for developing this idea for
Lee came from the moral lessons studied
in the ten wings of the eaching the
shirt eat if you recall the 10 wings is
10 commentaries written by Confucius
they mentioned the idea of the doll this
Confucian is dull however isn't the same
doll as discussed in Taoism this doll or
way that is discussed by the
neo-confucian as' is the way that
controls each separate category of
things in the universe chun-hee studied
the ten wings or these appendices as
they were called in order to understand
the doll and from the doll he arrived
his idea of Li the Chung brothers had
one disagreement that in their lifetime
never got reconciled and ended up call
two schools of neo-confucianism to
emerge with respect to the all-important
concept of lis or principle in her
essence these two brothers parted ways
the one thing they agreed on was that Li
and human nature are the same but as far
as the mind goes and the Chinese called
the mind Xin which means heart but Xin
was the term used in Chinese and a lot
of other cultures to to symbolize the
mind
Chung II said yes li is human nature but
the mind part
the Sheen part that is not Li that is Qi
the mind belongs to the world of
substance and matter
Chung Hall says uh uh mind and Li are
all in one see that's where they parted
ways with respect to the underlying
concept of Li Chun Li said this Xin the
mind
this part is separate from the Li and is
in fact Qi that to a caveman mind like
yours truly that all seems so trivial
and not worth losing sleep over but in
the bubble of Chinese Confucianism in
the eleventh and twelfth century it was
the biggest thing going on and each view
had its followers and detractors and
from these two slightly different ways
of looking at the same overall
philosophy there developed the two
schools of neo-confucianism from
chummy's idea that human nature in the
mind are not joined together evolved Li
Jie the school of principle for Chung
Hall his followers called his thought
Xin Jie the school of the mind it said
the mind in human nature were all one
and contained the same Li one more thing
about Chung hua if you recall from last
episode ha a new established the idea of
the thought on the passing of the doll
of Confucian tradition from yao-shan you
kings when and Wool the Duke of Joe and
then two months and after Monza there is
a long interruption that carried into
high news day almost a thousand years
later
dynasty days but chun-hee proclaimed
that this doubt home was now carried
forward from Monza after so many
centuries all the way up to these
northern Song days and that his brother
Chun Hall now carried this doubt on
mantle the champion of the Xin Jie
school or School of the mind
Xiang Haos idea that mind and human
nature are one was Lucho un 1139 to 1193
he's probably better known as Lu Xiang
Xiang the master of Shang Xiang they
didn't curve this on his tomb but he was
also well known as Zhu Xi's main rival
and when the two of them would hold
public debates Zhu XI and liu xiang shan
petra big crowds in its day so juicy is
coming up shortly liu xiang shan became
the greatest spokesman for this she
shares school of the mind version of
this song that's the general term
for what people will in my zip code
anyway called neo-confucianism so song
cher song studies comprised all this new
high-octane neo-confucian to some
thought that all came about during the
11th and 12th centuries this Xin Jie
school of the mind denied the existence
of any truths other than what one gained
through their own awareness according to
the school of the mind you became your
own authority on what is right or wrong
true or false
Liu Shan Shan famously summed it up this
way quote the universe is in my mind and
my mind is the universe end quote they
accepted Lee as the explanation of all
phenomena the school of the mind they
were in lockstep with monks humans were
born innately good and they came into
this world already containing all the
moral values and virtues that Confucian
isn't taught well ok we talked about him
enough let's bring them in finally and
see what was so great about zhu xi or
jutsu master zhu next to confucius in
the world of
Confucianism that is he's arguably
ranked as second most important he was
born in Fujian in October of eleven
thirty
this means that poor old song Emperor
wait song was looking at his third
freezing cold winter up in Heilong Jiang
as the captive of the Jurchens who now
ruled North China the northern song that
it's lights punched out in eleven twenty
seven and now that jaw family was
keeping the dynasty alive in the South
reorganized around Hangzhou so now we're
in the southern song and zhu shi he was
a product of this southern song era when
zhu xi was born
chung he had already been gone 20 years
the teachings of these five northern
song philosophers had had enough time to
get sussed out and to mature for a while
where to take it from there
to a higher state of perfection was left
to choose xi jude's came from a poor
scholarly tradition that went back five
generations his father died in a
political struggle mic Monza's saintly
mother Zhu Xi's mum raised him and was
equally lionized as a model for a
mother's dedication to raising her son
under unenviable circumstances his
father had arranged for several old
friends to educate joushi after his
passing
soju she received a very diverse
education from teachers of taoism
buddhism as well as Confucianism he
mastered all this thought by age 18
Zhu Shi had passed the chin shared
degree and was posted to his home
province of Fujian as brilliant as he
may have been she's political career
didn't see him rise terribly far up the
southern song curses unarmed it was
written at zhu xi at a reputation for
falling into the category of officials
who did not seek to enrich themselves
from their public services these were
foul political times and Chu she wound
up on the wrong side of the emperor on
something and had to pay a political
price for that he was one heck of a
prolific writer his work the record is
saying
140 Scrolls long he left behind for
posterity 300 chapters of writings
containing almost a thousand poems
official documents you know like
memorials and petitions and letters
covering every subject that was on
anyone's mind back in the 12th century
shushie's time was contemporary to that
of the 2nd and 3rd Crusades Saladin
Henry the second in England
Maimonides and Angkor Wat in Cambodia
just had its grand opening very exciting
times
he also wrote this handy little
guidebook that no one was ever without
it was called the jolly the book of
family rituals this slim volume set
everyone straight on the rituals
ceremonies and anything that an elite
family of the day might require for
weddings funerals every occasion you
could imagine Zhu XI wrote the
definitive book and if you followed it
you'd know how to do everything in a way
Confucius would have approved his gene
salut reflection on things at hand
contain the entire history of the
development of the neo-confucian Isnora
and song masters Zhu Xi's commentary on
the work of all five is considered the
definitive insight into their work when
the history books mentioned that Zhu XI
synthesize the thought of these five
northern song thinkers it was this work
that gene Sulu where he did it like his
predecessors zhu xi had a deep concern
about the way people in his day practice
their Confucian beliefs he saw that
rituals and ceremonies seemed to be only
done just for the sake of doing them
there was no feeling no oneness with the
performance of the rituals It was as if
tradition dictated it but people
practiced it like getting out of bed in
the morning and going to work and for
this reason zhu xi believed if people's
grasp of Confucian thought was so
superficial and done without a conscious
thought then they were just missing
master combs
whole point Jews she taught to read less
and to just take the time to focus and
concentrate on the core ethical
teachings that's why it was juicy who
said the five classics the Wu Chi where
were great and all but as far as he saw
it all you really needed to keep close
at hand were the four books the Sushil
nothing crystallized the pure essence of
Confucianism like those four books the
no new Hmong Yong Yong and dashi soju
she took Tanya's original idea that
grouped these four books together as a
new Confucian Canon and pretty much
after this point they're officially
known as the true the four books now at
first the Confucian Canon of sacred
texts had begun with the Leo Ching the
six classics which became the five
classics after the you at Ching the
classic of music was dropped from the
list and you can get the entirety of Zhu
Xi's Li Shu philosophy from reading all
his exhaustive and easy-to-understand
commentaries and these four books though
he wrote commentaries of other classics
it was these commentaries on the soup
that are considered by many to be Zhu
Xi's masterwork if you check the
infographic which I trust everyone has
downloaded by now
you'll see all the Confucian classics
listed including the five classics and
the four books by thirteen thirteen the
four books will become the standard text
books for Confucian education and Zhu
Xi's commentaries will serve as the
cliff notes and mind you not everyone
agreed with these viewpoints of Zhu Shi
that were adopted by the state as the
official national version of
Confucianism when Jude's stepped into
the shoes of the Ancients he took a few
liberties with what he said they would
have said philosophers throughout the
ages did this they did it with
Confucianism in the Han the tongue song
and again in the mean hey baby you gotta
freshen it up from time to time or also
become
irrelevant the problem was that who was
to say what the Jo heiress ages would
have agreed to or not so you had all
these great ideas that were popular some
sponsored by the state but not everyone
was in agreement with everyone it was
with respect to Lee that juicy
particularly looked at things from a
different angle true she said quote in
the universe there is Lee and there is
Chi Lee is the doll that pertains to
what is above shapes and the source from
which all things are produced
she is the material that pertains to
what is within shapes and is the means
whereby things are produced hence men or
things at the moment of their production
must receive this Lee in order that they
may have a nature of their own they must
receive this Chi in order that they may
have their bodily form end quote Joo she
basically said when an individual thing
comes into existence a certainly is
inherent in it which makes it what it is
and constitutes its nature human nature
there's nothing more than the Lee of
humanity that is inherent in the
individual this Lee makes that thing
whether it's us or something else what
it ought to be jus she said Lee and she
go hand in hand quote the Lee
constitutes only a pure empty and vast
world without shapes or traces and so
incapable of producing anything but that
she has the capacity to undergo
fermentation and condensation and thus
brings things into existence
and yet whenever that she exists Lee is
present unquote the supreme ultimate or
Taichi that we mentioned last episode in
discussing Jodoin ye it embraces all the
Lee for all things and everything has
Lee so this Taiji this supreme ultimate
anta logically speaking is the ultimate
uniting all the Lee of heaven earth and
humans 10d Ren and beyond the supreme
ultimate there can be nothing
and it was juicy who likened this Taichi
or supreme ultimate to the Godhead of
other religions known in China at the
time Zhu Xi's renowned and achievements
lie in rounding out and finishing up all
the new ideas that had coalesced around
these five northern song philosophers
Jodoin ye shall Young Jang's I and the
two Chung's how and ye one other thing
Zhu XI placed great emphasis and what
was the act of learning he called
learning the principal goal of humankind
and he was against this idea of learning
for the sake of advancing one's career
he insisted that learning was solely for
one's personal growth and self
cultivation like listening to history
podcasts if that's not self cultivating
I don't know what is the last year's of
Zhu Xi's life he was a victim of
political backbiting and intellectual
intrigue his teachings even came under
attack in 1196 four years before his
death but he was posthumously
rehabilitated in 1202 zhu xi worked all
the way up until his dying days it said
that when he passed he was still working
with his students on some passages from
the great learning path austria one of
the four books
what's zhu xi's legacy well-liked munsi
and unlike shinza he believed the
universe was good and that human beings
nature is to be and do good he was
passionate about Confucianism and worked
hard successfully to I might add to
re-establish the relevance of
Confucianism in China as far as the
nation's cultural and political
integrity went and like these other
neo-confucians
he saw how people were turning their
eyes away from the teaching of consul
and gobbling up Taoism and Buddhism
instead to satisfy their desire for
spiritual guidance and solace his
teachings allowed Confucianism to remain
in that race zhu xi knew his idea about
Li and Qi was the answer to the question
of how to explain the relation
ship of the human mind heart machine
human natural tendencies and the
emotions and thanks to Chang's I jus she
was able to see that the sheen the mind
heart is the unifier of human tendencies
and human emotions and what juice she is
credited with is of course building on
the ideas that came before him he's
credited with creating this Toshiya this
brand of Confucianism that stayed true
to the great sage but also was able to
synthesize aspects of popular Taoist and
Buddhist beliefs and in doing so in
giving the public what they wanted so to
speak she added about another eight
hundred more years to Confucius to sell
by date in China from Buddhism he took
that concept of Li and from Taoism came
Chi Chi has got to be one of the most
interesting concepts to come out of
Chinese sieve when you're born you only
have as much of this Chi as much of this
vital force as your two parents gave you
that was your Chi but you also had a li
and this principle or nature that
essence of who you are not physically
this li housed all your natural
tendencies everything about you that was
related to your specific human nature
Chi and Li maybe you can start to fathom
what the whole science of Qi Gong might
possibly be all about once the idea of
Chi was understood well down through the
ages Chinese masters and even common
people from all walks of life controlled
aspects of their Chi that gave them
certain powers and in some cases super
powers that ought to be a future topic
13:13 was another banner year in the
history of Confucianism that was the
year more than a century after chu she's
passing 20 years after the death of
Kublai Khan the fourth un dynasty
emperor read and sung declared the four
books as the cortex for the civil
service exams bringing back Confucianism
after a dark period following the Mongol
conquest of the song Ren zone was the
first of the Mongol Emperor's to have a
Confucian bent to him he called for that
ideology as packaged and processed by
Zhu XI who tied everything together
created by the five founders to be
folded into the Mongol government
administration of china this Emperor's
posthumous name couldn't have been more
appropriate
Jen's own what Chinese character more
than dren benevolence can best represent
the thought of kungfu that's how it
always was at the pinnacle of power
starting around the Six Dynasties period
preceding the sway and tong one minute
you were up and then your benefactor the
Emperor died in the new emperor or their
Regent or Dowager Empress favored your
arrival yeah over the centuries the
state of affairs all this made for some
thrilling factionalism in the royal
halls of power in Imperial China and
thankfully for the Confucians this
mongol hyun dynasty emperor favored them
over the taoist and buddhist factions
this made things a little easier when
1368 came around when the mongols got
swept away and the Confucians were
already in place thanks to Ren's own to
help Zhu Yuanzhang
get the Ming Dynasty established and up
and running and just as Confucianism was
waiting in the wings to help Leo Poong
jumpstart the Han same in the Ming the
influence of this philosophy that we
call neo-confucianism he has first
crafted by Jiang Zi and his students
Cheung Chau and Cheung Yee and then
synthesized by Zhu Shi spread from China
to Japan in the 13th century and to
Korea during the again we remember
during the Han Dynasty Confucianism had
already been introduced to Vietnam and
had been thriving ever since so if you
ever find yourself on Jeopardy and the
answer is the 12th century Chinese
neo-confucian philosopher who took the
insights made by John Tsai and the Chung
brothers to frame his leisure a
philosophy via the casa
logical interaction of Li and Qi you now
know to ask who was juicy and for all of
you around the world who don't know
about the long-running American game
show Jeopardy with the pride of Canada
as its host Alex Trebek go check it out
by the 14th century Zhu Xi's version of
Confucian thought known as dosa or the
teaching of the way or leisure the
teaching of principle that became the
standard curriculum for the Imperial
civil service exams pretty much all the
way up until 1905 almost to the end of
Chinese imperial history and for this
reason it's very success and sustaining
such longevity and the later historians
and statesmen will look at this is the
primary reason for China's conservatism
and failure to embrace new learning and
new technologies and the ching fw mote
said quote the brilliant Song Dynasty
was in some respects father to the
Moorabbin late ching however unfairly
Zhu XI is often blamed for that end
quote and need I say Chu she didn't do
much to help the cause of sexual
equality this may have been a new kind
of Confucianism but as far as the role
of women and society
they remained cemented in this
subservient and inferior State zhu xi i
blamed for this too it's not like Zhu XI
came around in the 13th century and
Confucianism turned on a dime not
everyone considered all this new
learning that came out of the northern
song to be particularly credible the
Orthodox wing of the Confucian Nestorian
sent out the call for a back to the Han
movement that said get rid of all these
corrupted versions of the classics along
with these wild commentaries and let's
get back to the versions of all the
classics that came from the Han Dynasty
they were the ones closest to the Jo
period where all this thought originated
they knew best all Zhu XI and his ilk
did was corrupt their meaning this call
to return to the Han was known as hunch
as opposed to the Dow share or some
share of juicy even a juicy his own
lifetime there was an intellectual
battle going on between the Orthodox
Confucian asou were saying you know
what's wrong with the way it used to be
and these new Confucians you know over
the matter of whose interpretation of
the ancient texts was the true one the
orthodox Confucians also had a beef with
the neo-confucians because the shoe the
orthodox Confucians believed no there
was a bigger body of work to consider
than just the Analects monks a doctrine
of the mean and the great learning the
more traditional Confucians also turn
their nose up at the manner in which the
neo-confucians turn master kong into a
kind of Godhead figure the traditional
conservative types saw Confucius as he
saw himself a humble teacher who hid a
knack for breathing new life into the
long-forgotten wisdom of y'all Xuan and
you I would like to get started but the
next big thing in Chinese philosophy
this is in the mid Ming Dynasty
Emperor's changhua home church UMTA and
ja-jing let's look at one show ren 1472
215 29 perhaps better known as one
yang-ming for whom young ming shan north
of the city of Taipei was named for
there's also a young mean Shan son lean
Gong Gong in southern Hunan young mean
Shan Forest Park all named for this last
philosophical superstar we will look at
this rival school of neo-confucian
thought became known as the Lu Wan
school the city of you y'all gets the
honor of claiming Wang Yong Ming as
their native son he didn't come from
wealth or nobility but his was in every
way of respectable family that had
produced its fair share of Jin sure
degree holders and one of the
interesting fun facts about Wong Yong
Ming is that his father wah wah when he
was a young end with aspirations to join
the respectable world of officialdom
achieved the highest score and the
triennial chin shirt exams
and that's like coming out number one in
China's Gaga so with laurels like that
resting on his head Wang hua picked up
the family and off to the big city they
went to the imperial capital of Beijing
remember the Ming capital used to be in
Nanjing but in 1420 they got moved to
Beijing and that was where all the
action was Shanghai was still 400 years
away from being anything worth talking
about and wah wah started out working at
the prestigious Hanlin Academy the
handling yet found it by no less a
person than the great Tong dynasty
emperor Shen song now I want you to
think of me as a shameless name dropper
but Li Bai Oh young show shun quoi they
all studied there so if I may dust off
the old Harvard metaphor once again this
was like the Harvard of China or at
least the RAND Corporation it was a very
prestigious institution and they're
still around today descendants of both
Cola and Monza were made life members as
were those who trace their family
ancestry to others we discussed Jodoin
Yi the Chung brothers and juicy so
anyway that's where Wang hua went to
work and therefore that's the
environment one young man grew up in his
father was a major rock star in his day
and young Leung young Ming had to live
in that shadow like these Gaga in Saudi
and princelings one young man got to
ride on a good old parental coattails
and enjoy all that 15th century Beijing
had to offer the beautiful people of the
day for a young buck like Wang Yang Ming
with all that wind blowing in his sails
he thrived and I'm sure he knew a lot
was expected of him under such
conditions it wasn't surprising that one
young being became this spectacular
child prodigy who even as a teen stood
out among scholars much older than he
was who had been prodigies in their day
by the age of 21 he was already say and
he had sucked the classics dry for
everything he could possibly gain from
studying them so he was gonna go wander
around and learn other things as well
outside the Confucian Soler's
system ironically with all this pedigree
and smarts
it took one young being three tries to
pass the gene share exam failing in 1493
and 1496 but he was third time lucky in
1499 they didn't score first like his
dad but he did play six amongst 297
candidates but in between his second
failed attempt and the third time when
he passed one yang-ming had retired to
his home in you y'all to reflect on
matters and it was during this time in
particular that he immersed himself in
Buddhist and Taoist teachings he learned
all that and then later rejected
everything that he didn't find useful to
Confucian thought when wang finally
began to civil service career he got off
to a flaming start serving with
distinction and public works criminal
prosecution and the civil service exams
he had acquired a reputation for being a
model morally upright no-nonsense
official in dark times however the
morally upright tend not to fare too
well
when wha operated in the halls of power
it was the tail end of the hong sure
Emperor's reign yes the famous emperor
who had no concubines and stayed true to
his Empress Xiao Chun ji but he died in
a son the junga emperor took over he was
famous for a lot of things not many of
them good but the name that goes hand in
hand with junta is the eunuch Leo Chi
eunuchs by now when the Ming had a
hammerlock on power inside the palace
Neogene was the worst of the worst and
unfortunately for one young being
someone who spoke up for what was right
he fell afoul of Leo Qing and in 1506
wound up in prison for words spoken that
were critical of this powerful eunuch he
suffered terribly I mean physically he
was never what you'd call Hardy to Wong
managed to survive his stint in prison
and saw himself exiled to Guo Yan in
guacho province we discussed guacho in
the Miao ethnic minority during the to
William Messner
CHP 177 178 it was a major backwater
place and not for the squeamish but one
young man made the best of a bad
situation and even took a great interest
in studying them y'all and learning what
they were all about
it'll a lot of time to enjoy some
solitude there which is always good for
thinking about philosophical issues and
it was during this three-year cuejoe
period that the philosopher side of Wong
Yong Ming became more dominant in the
meantime he continued to learn
everything he could about the Miao of
cuejoe and probably others in that
province I mean if you're interested in
the different ethnic minority groups in
China
kWe chose your place you're done - well
more about cuejoe and one young man next
episode it was only during this period
of Exile in guacho that Wang Cho Ren
transformed into one young Ming in
August of 1510 the eunuch Leo Jean got a
well-deserved and long overdue dose of
capital punishment he famously got the
death by a thousand cuts and I think I
mentioned this in that episode of bits
of his flesh as it was cut away from his
person sold on the street with a bowl of
rice wine for a few coins when the
authorities raided Leo Chin's
safe-deposit box they hauled away almost
four hundred fifty thousand kilos of
gold in a today's spot prize of roughly
forty thousand dollars per kilo that
came to a nice cool eighteen billion
dollars and I didn't even mention the
nine and a half million kilos of silver
he had squirreled away another five and
a half billion dollars he could buy your
way into Beverly Park and Holmby Hills
with that kind of net worth so with his
an emilio jean out of the way
one young Ming had a lot of people who
had been on Leo Chin's bad side they all
made comebacks Wang went to Nanjing
first then to the capital and then got
sent to Jiang Shi of all places and it's
there where he served brilliantly as a
military governor putting down all
manners of ethnic unrest directed
against the Emperor
there was also an uprising directed
against the jeong de emperor in 1518
that one young Ming had a major role in
suppressing so you can say is Jiang Shi
period really caused a major uptick and
one young means share price nothing but
good things could come from that he was
once again called back to Beijing but on
roots his father Wan hua died and you
know how it was back then if you
followed Confucianism as your guiding
light if your parent died you had to
drop what you were doing and take three
years off of your life to mourn them and
conduct all the necessary ceremonies and
rituals the dutiful son carried out his
obligations and by 1525 he was ready to
jump back into the fray the Chengdu
Emperor was gone and the cha ching area
was off and running one of the great
periods of political backbiting Wong
ended up retiring the scholar heaven the
city of Shao Ching in judge Yong
province next door to the west from
where he grew up in you yo part of Ning
Bal Prefecture between 1521 and 1527 he
began accumulating quite a large
following of students and became
immensely popular these students were
one in particular will throughout Wong
Yuen Ming's lifetime and after he passes
away organize curate and preserve the
entirety of their masters teachings and
this was mid Ming Dynasty none of this
Joe Han Tung business where who knows
who said what a lot more content had a
chance of surviving from the Ming than
those dynasties from the ancient portion
of Chinese history every great
philosopher from Louds to Confucius all
the way up to Zhu XI whether or not
their torch was carried forward entirely
dependent on the enthusiasm and zeal of
their disciples well one Yong Ming had
such a coterie early in the reign of the
cha ching emperor Wong Yang Ming got
sent to guanxi to deal with some ethnic
uprising I guess whenever the minority
people revolted he was the go-to guy as
he did in Jiang Shi
eh-oh one young man used rather
enlightened and unconventional methods
to putting down the disturbances once
again he rose to the occasion as a loyal
and capable ming official who was
equally adept at military affairs as
well that's why only one young man can
claim to be a philosopher scholar
official and military general he went
down to Guang XI I mean back then it was
a tough terrain and Wang Yang Ming
didn't have the strongest Constitution
as you know so after serving there for a
short stretch he had to depart his post
to seek medical attention for his
ailments and on roots he perished and
this was in January 15 29 so that is the
background on one show Ren aka Wang Yong
Ming so next episode part 9 we'll look
at the philosophy of Wong Yong Ming and
how he parted ways with Zhu XI about one
main thing that's all for next week I'm
pretty sure we can call this part 8 the
penultimate episode so don't abandon
ship just yet from the city of Los
Angeles California this here is Laszlo
Montgomery wishing everybody my best and
well feeling so thankful that all y'alls
listen to the CHP let's do it once more
with feeling next time for another
exciting episode of the China history
podcast
you